# **Creating Disk Image Reports using the BitCurator Reporting Tool**

### **Overview**

BitCurator users have the option to run a number of different reporting
tools against their disk images. Although each of these tools can be run
individually, users may alternatively use the "Run All" tab of the
**BitCurator Reporting Tool** in order to simultaneously execute fiwalk,
the annotated features report, and the BitCurator forensic reports.

**Step 1**

Open the BitCurator Reporting Tool by double clicking on the "Forensics
Tools" folder on the BitCurator desktop and then double clicking on the
"BitCurator Reporting Tool" icon.

**Step 2**

Select the "Run All" tab from the options along the top ("Run All" is
the default selection, see Figure 1).

**Step 3**

Type or navigate to the location of the following files or directories
(see Figure 1):

- **Image File:** The location of the forensic disk image to be
  analyzed.

- **Bulk Extractor Feature Directory:** The directory containing the
  bulk_extractor results associated with the disk image above.

- **Output Directory (fiwalk output, annotated features, and reports
  will appear in here):** A new directory that will be created by the
  BitCurator Reporting Tool to contain the listed reports.

- **Config File (optional):** For additional configuration files;
  generally left empty.

If you use the navigation button to select the **Output Directory**,
type the name of the new directory in the "Name:" field at the top left
of the window and then click "Save". Do not use the "Create Folder"
button on the right to create this new directory.

<img src="./media/image1.png" style="width:6.5in;height:4.34722in" />

*Figure 1*

**Step 4**

Once each of the file and directory fields above are properly filled
out, click the "Run" button. The activity bar on the bottom left will
indicated that the report generation process is still ongoing. Once
complete, a success or error message will appear in the "Command Line
Output" window (see Figure 2).

<img src="./media/image2.png" style="width:6.5in;height:7.04167in" />

Figure 2

**Step 5**

Completion of the steps above generates the following files in the
directory you specified under **Output Directory** in Step 3:

- **features (directory):** The annotated features generated by bulk
  extractor;

- **bc_format_bargraph.pdf (file):** Histogram showing file formats;

- **bulk_extractor_report.pdf (file):** High-level overview of bulk
  extractor feature locations on disk;

- **fiwalk_deleted_files.pdf (file):** File documenting paths to any
  deleted materials found in a given partition;

- **fiwalk-output.xml.xlsx (file):** DFXML output (file system metadata)
  converted to an Excel spreadsheet;

- **fiwalk_report.pdf (file):** High-level overview of file system
  characteristics;

- **format_table.pdf (file):** Long-form file format names for formats
  shown in **bc_format_bargraph.pdf;**

- **premis.xml (file):** PREMIS preservation metadata.

Open the BitCurator reports directory to examine the files. Youâ€™ll find
visualizations, XLSX transcriptions of file system metadata, high-level
reports on file types, and overviews of features identified by
bulk_extractor.

**If you would like to provide feedback for this page, please follow
this** **[<u>link to the BitCurator Wiki Google
Form</u>](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSelmRx1VmgDEg3dU5_8cXZy9MZ5v8_sAl-Ur2nPFLAi6Lvu2w/viewform?usp=sf_link)
for the BitCurator All Step-by-Step Guides section.**
