# **Tools**

### **Overview**

The BitCurator Environment includes many individual tools to perform
specific curation tasks. Listed here are all tools packaged by default
in the environment, organized by the folder found on the BitCurator
desktop. Links will take users to the corresponding external site or
documentation. Where applicable, relevant BitCurator **Step-by-Step
Guides** are listed as well.

Because BitCurator is an Ubuntu environment, users are able to download
and install tools as in any other Ubuntu distribution or Linux OS.

In addition, much functionality is found in the file navigation system,
Nautilus, through contextual menus. Listed are guides for many of these
scripts.

-   [[Data
    Triage]{.underline}](https://confluence.educopia.org/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=15630990&src=contextnavpagetreemode)

-   [[Create MD5
    Sums]{.underline}](https://confluence.educopia.org/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=15630994&src=contextnavpagetreemode)

-   [[Display a file in Hex
    editor]{.underline}](https://confluence.educopia.org/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=15630997&src=contextnavpagetreemode)

-   [[Disk Image
    Metadata]{.underline}](https://confluence.educopia.org/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=15631001&src=contextnavpagetreemode)

-   [[Extract Compressed
    Files]{.underline}](https://confluence.educopia.org/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=15631005&src=contextnavpagetreemode)

-   [[Live Search for
    Files]{.underline}](https://confluence.educopia.org/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=15631010&src=contextnavpagetreemode)

-   [[Safely Mount
    Device]{.underline}](https://confluence.educopia.org/display/BC/Safely+Mount+Devices)

**Imaging and Recovery**

[**[Brasero]{.underline}**](https://wiki.gnome.org/Apps/Brasero): GUI
application to copy data and audio CD and DVDs

[**[Guymager]{.underline}**](https://guymager.sourceforge.io/):
Open-source forensic disk imaging tool

-   See the [[Creating a Disk Image Using
    Guymager]{.underline}](https://confluence.educopia.org/display/BC/Creating+a+Disk+Image+Using+Guymager)
    **Step-by-Step Guide**.

[**cdrdao**](http://cdrdao.sourceforge.net/): CD imaging tool (primarily
for audio CDs)

[**[Clonezilla]{.underline}**](https://clonezilla.org/): A imaging and
cloning program for partitions and disks

[**dcfldd**](http://dcfldd.sourceforge.net/): A forensics-focused
rewrite of **dd**

[**dd**](https://www.gnu.org/software/coreutils/manual/html_node/dd-invocation.html):
Create raw disk images and transfer data between devices

[**[ddrescue]{.underline}**](https://www.gnu.org/software/ddrescue/): A
version of **dd** with additional options for data recovery

[**[dumpfloppy]{.underline}**](https://offog.org/code/dumpfloppy/):
Suite of tools for reading floppy disks in arbitrary formats supported
by the PC floppy controller, and for working with the resulting image
files

[**ewfacquire**](https://linux.die.net/man/1/ewfacquire): Acquire Expert
Witness packaged disk images from devices on the command line. Part of
the [[libewf]{.underline}](https://github.com/libyal/libewf) library of
Expert Witness tools.

-   More documentation at the [[Forensics
    wiki]{.underline}](https://forensicswiki.xyz/wiki/index.php?title=Libewf).

**Forensic analysis tools**

**BitCurator Disk Image Access:** A GUI interface to browse raw and
forensically-packaged disk images, export files and deleted items, and
view disk image metadata.

**BitCurator Mounter**: A GUI application to list currently attached
devices along with technical details. Allows users to mount fixed and
removable media according to the current mount policy.

**BitCurator Reporting Tool**: A GUI-driven (and optionally
command-line) tool for running forensics tools in sequence to produce
human- and machine-readable reports in
[[DFXML]{.underline}](https://www.github.com/simsong/dfxml).

-   Find instructions at the Creating Disk Image Reports using the
    BitCurator Reporting Tool **Step-by-Step Guide**.

-   Use of the Reporting Tool is also covered in the [[Quickstart
    Guide]{.underline}](https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-distro/wiki/Releases#quickstart-guide).

[**[Brunnhilde]{.underline}**](https://github.com/tw4l/brunnhilde):
Generates aggregate reports of files in a directory or disk image based
on input from Richard Lehane\'s
[[Siegfried]{.underline}](http://www.itforarchivists.com/siegfried).

[**bulk_extractor Viewer
(BEViewer)**](https://github.com/simsong/bulk_extractor/wiki/BEViewer):
A GUI front-end for
[[bulk_extractor]{.underline}](https://github.com/simsong/bulk_extractor)

-   See the [[Bulk Extractor
    Viewer]{.underline}](https://confluence.educopia.org/display/~aberish/Bulk+Extractor+Viewer)
    **Step-by-Step Guide**.

-   See the [[Regular Expressions in Bulk
    Extractor]{.underline}](https://confluence.educopia.org/display/~aberish/Regular+Expressions+in+Bulk+Extractor)
    **Step-by-Step Guide**.

-   bulk_extractor is a critical component of the [[Annotated Features
    Report]{.underline}](https://confluence.educopia.org/display/~aberish/Annotated+Features+Report)
    **Step-by-Step Guide**.

**[[Disktype]{.underline}](http://disktype.sourceforge.net/):** Detects
the content format of a disk or disk image

[**[Fiwalk]{.underline}**](https://forensicswiki.xyz/wiki/index.php?title=Fiwalk):
Fiwalk is part of [[The Sleuth
Kit\'s]{.underline}](https://www.sleuthkit.org/sleuthkit/) collection of
digital forensics tools and is used to produce a DFXML (Digital
Forensics XML) report on the contents of a disk image within the
**BitCurator Reporting Tool**.

-   See the
    [[fiwalk]{.underline}](https://confluence.educopia.org/display/~aberish/Fiwalk)
    **Step-by-Step Guide**.

[**[md5deep]{.underline}**](http://md5deep.sourceforge.net/): Set of
programs to compute MD5, SHA-1, SHA-256, Tiger, or Whirlpool message
digests on an arbitrary number of files

[**[nsrllookup]{.underline}**](http://rjhansen.github.io/nsrllookup/):
Query tool to check for a matching MD5 hash in the National Software
Reference Library Reference Data Set

[**[PhotoRec]{.underline}**](https://www.cgsecurity.org/wiki/PhotoRec):
File data recovery software designed to recover lost files including
video, documents and archives from hard disks, CD-ROMs, and lost
pictures from digital camera memory

[**[RegRipper]{.underline}**](https://github.com/keydet89/RegRipper2.8):
Tool for extracting and parsing information (keys, values, data) from
the Windows Registry

[**SDHash**](http://roussev.net/sdhash/sdhash.html): File similarity
tool using similarity digests

[**ssdeep**](https://ssdeep-project.github.io/ssdeep/index.html): Fast
hash generation

[**[TestDisk]{.underline}**](https://www.cgsecurity.org/wiki/TestDisk):
Data recovery software with focus on recovering lost partitions, making
non-booting disks bootable again/partition table recovery

**Packaging and Transfer**

[**[BagIt Python
Library]{.underline}**](https://github.com/LibraryOfCongress/bagit-python):
Command line implementation of the BagIt specification

[**[Grsync]{.underline}**](https://sourceforge.net/projects/grsync/):
GUI fronted for the rysnc command line tool to synchronize or transfer
data between locations

### **Additional tools**

[**[Antiword]{.underline}**](http://www.winfield.demon.nl/): Converts
the Microsoft Word 2, 6, 7, 97, 2000, 2002 and 2003 formats to plain
text and PostScript

**BitCurator Reports** (command line): Command line implementation of
the **BitCurator Reporting Tool**, see GUI entry under the *Forensic
analysis tools* section

[**[Bless Hex
Editor]{.underline}**](https://github.com/bwrsandman/Bless): Hex editor
to edit and view files as a sequence of bytes

[**ClamTK**](https://dave-theunsub.github.io/clamtk/): Virus scanning

[**[FIDO Format
Identification]{.underline}**](https://openpreservation.org/technology/products/fido/):
Command line tool to identify the file formats of digital objects,
designed for integration into automated workflows

[**Fiwalk**](https://forensicswiki.xyz/wiki/index.php?title=Fiwalk)
(command line): Fiwalk is part of [[The Sleuth
Kit\'s]{.underline}](https://www.sleuthkit.org/sleuthkit/) collection of
digital forensics tools and is used to produce a DFXML (Digital
Forensics XML) report on the contents of a disk image within the
**BitCurator Reporting Tool**.

-   See the
    [[fiwalk]{.underline}](https://confluence.educopia.org/display/~aberish/Fiwalk)
    **Step-by-Step Guide**.

[**GHex**](https://developer.gnome.org/ghex/): A hex viewer/editor

[**GtkHash**](http://gtkhash.sourceforge.net/): A cryptographic hashing
tool

[**[Hashrat]{.underline}**](https://github.com/ColumPaget/Hashrat):
Hashing tool supporting MD5, SHA1, SAH256, SHA512, Whirlpool, JH and
HMAC versions of these. Includes recursive file hashing and other
features.

**[[H](https://www.mars.org/home/rob/proj/hfs/)[FS
Explorer](http://www.catacombae.org/hfsexplorer/)]{.underline}**:
Provides access to the legacy HFS file systems

-   See the [[View and export information from HFS-formatted disk
    images]{.underline}](https://confluence.educopia.org/display/BC/View+and+export+information+from+HFS-formatted+disk+images)
    **Step-by-Step Guide**.

**Match BE Features to File Names**: Command line implementation of the
**BitCurator Reporting Tool** function

[**[nwipe]{.underline}**](https://github.com/martijnvanbrummelen/nwipe):
Securely erase disks

[**[Read Outlook PST
File]{.underline}**](https://www.five-ten-sg.com/libpst/): A utility for
reading and exporting the contents of PST files.

**System Profiler and Benchmark**: Link to the native system information
tool

[**[VLC media
player]{.underline}**](https://www.videolan.org/vlc/index.html):
Multimedia player and framework that plays most multimedia files as well
as DVDs, audio CDs, VCDs, and various streaming protocols.

**If you would like to provide feedback for this page, please follow
this** **[[link to the BitCurator Wiki Google
Form]{.underline}](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScp7yt_CTLijHqSOzCtOy3gFJs0ZqJHBgBVO6SXadB-vsTA0A/viewform?usp=sf_link)
for the Tools section.**
