# **Onboarding**

BitCurator projects are maintained by members of the community.
Interested in being added as a member? Read about areas you can
contribute to and the technologies used below! Contact with our Software
Development Committee

The code and development documentation for all BitCurator projects are
maintained in Github Repositories
([<u>https://github.com/bitcurator</u>](https://github.com/bitcurator)),
where both non-coding and development work is maintained and completed.

More information on using Git and Github:

- [<u>Git Handbook Â· GitHub
  Guides</u>](https://guides.github.com/introduction/git-handbook/)

## **Non-coding**

There are a variety of tasks essential to the development and
maintenance of BCC projects that don't require prior experience with
coding.

**Testing software**, documenting bugs:

- [<u>Top 7 Major Goals of A Good Software
  Tester</u>](https://www.softwaretestinghelp.com/goals-of-a-software-tester/)

- [<u>How to Write A Good Bug Report? Tips and
  Tricks</u>](https://www.softwaretestinghelp.com/how-to-write-good-bug-report/)

- [<u>Bug report writing guidelines - Mozilla |
  MDN</u>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Mozilla/QA/Bug_writing_guidelines)

Check and Confirm bugs that been submitted as issues

Issue Pages for BitCurator Projects

- [<u>https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-distro/issues</u>](https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-distro/issues)

- [<u>https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-distro-installer/issues</u>](https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-distro-installer/issues)

- [<u>https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-distro-tools/issues</u>](https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-distro-tools/issues)

- [<u>https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-distro-metadata/issues</u>](https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-distro-metadata/issues)

- [<u>https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-access-webtools/issues</u>](https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-access-webtools/issues)

- [<u>https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-access-redaction/issues</u>](https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-access-redaction/issues)

- [<u>https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-redact-pdf/issues</u>](https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-redact-pdf/issues)

- [<u>https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-nlp-gentm/issues</u>](https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-nlp-gentm/issues)

- [<u>https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-nlp-entspan/issues</u>](https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-nlp-entspan/issues)

**Documentation** - Take part in keeping project user and development
documentation up-to-date.

- [<u>https://confluence.educopia.org/display/BC/Development</u>](https://confluence.educopia.org/display/BC/Development)

- [<u>https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-distro/wiki</u>](https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-distro/wiki)

- [<u>https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-access/wiki</u>](https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-access/wiki).

README Pages for BitCurator Projects - install and development info

- [<u>https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-distro/blob/master/README.md</u>](https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-distro/blob/master/README.md)

- [<u>https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-distro-salt/blob/master/README.md</u>](https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-distro-salt/blob/master/README.md)

- [<u>https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-distro-tools/blob/master/README.md</u>](https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-distro-tools/blob/master/README.md)

- [<u>https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-distro-metadata/blob/master/README.md</u>](https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-distro-metadata/blob/master/README.md)

- [<u>https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-access-webtools/blob/master/README.md</u>](https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-access-webtools/blob/master/README.md)

- [<u>https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-access-redaction/blob/master/README.md</u>](https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-access-redaction/blob/master/README.md)

- [<u>https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-redact-pdf/blob/master/README.md</u>](https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-redact-pdf/blob/master/README.md)

- [<u>https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-nlp-gentm/blob/master/README.md</u>](https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-nlp-gentm/blob/master/README.md)

- [<u>https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-nlp-entspan/blob/master/README.md</u>](https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-nlp-entspan/blob/master/README.md)

## **For developers**

The BitCurator family of research projects include three main projects:
BitCurator, BitCurator Access, and BitCurator NLP. The repositories for
each are linked below along with links to documentation for working with
the technology stacks used in each project.

### **BitCurator Environment**

The BitCurator environment is a customized variant of Ubuntu, configured
using Salt Stack along with several repositories of custom tools
including: bitcurator-adduser and bitcurator-metadata

**Current repositories:**

- [<u>https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-distro</u>](https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-distro)

- [<u>https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-distro-installer</u>](https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-distro-installer)

- [<u>https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-distro-salt</u>](https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-distro-salt)

- [<u>https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-distro-tools</u>](https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-distro-tools)

Optional functionality and scripts:

- [<u>https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-distro-adduser</u>](https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-distro-adduser)
  [<u>https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-distro-metadata</u>](https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-distro-metadata)

**Technology Stack:**

- Ubuntu - Base operating system, user interface, tools

  - [<u>help.ubuntu.com</u>](https://help.ubuntu.com/lts/ubuntu-help/index.html)

- Salt Stack -

  - [<u>SaltStack Documentation</u>](https://docs.saltstack.com/)

- Shell Scripting -

  - [<u>BASH Programming - Introduction
    HOW-TO</u>](https://tldp.org/HOWTO/Bash-Prog-Intro-HOWTO.html)

  - [<u>Bash Scripting Tutorial for
    Beginners</u>](https://linuxconfig.org/bash-scripting-tutorial-for-beginners)

- Python -

  - [<u>Our Documentation - python.org</u>](https://www.python.org/doc/)

- Related components -

  - [<u>reingart/pyfpdf: Simple PDF generation for Python (FPDF PHP
    port)</u>](https://github.com/reingart/pyfpdf)

- XSLT -

  - [<u>Introduction to
    XSLT</u>](https://www.ibm.com/developerworks/xml/tutorials/x-introxslt/x-introxslt.html)

### **BitCurator Access Webtools**

The BitCurator Access Webtools project is comprised of a single
repository. The README provides instructions for both end users and
developers to clone and build from source.

**Current repository:**

- [<u>https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-access-webtools</u>](https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-access-webtools)

**Technology Stack:**

- The Sleuth Kit -

  - [<u>http://www.sleuthkit.org/sleuthkit/</u>](http://www.sleuthkit.org/sleuthkit/)

- PyTSK -

  - [<u>https://github.com/py4n6/pytsk</u>](https://github.com/py4n6/pytsk)

- Flask -

  - [<u>https://flask.pocoo.org/</u>](https://flask.pocoo.org/)

- Postgres -

  - [<u>https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/</u>](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/)

### **BitCurator Access Redaction Tools**

The BitCurator Access Redaction tools project is comprised of two
repositories. The READMEs provide instructions for both end users and
developers to clone and build from source.

**Current repositories:**

- [<u>https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-access-redaction</u>](https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-access-redaction)

- [<u>https://github.com/bitcurator/bitcurator-redact-pdf</u>](https://github.com/bitcurator/bitcurator-redact-pdf)

**Technology Stack:**

- The Sleuth Kit -

  - [<u>http://www.sleuthkit.org/sleuthkit/</u>](http://www.sleuthkit.org/sleuthkit/)

- Liblightgrep -

  - [<u>http://strozfriedberg.github.io/liblightgrep/</u>](http://strozfriedberg.github.io/liblightgrep/)

### **BitCurator NLP Tools**

The BitCurator NLP project includes several repositories. The topic
model generation environment (bitcurator-nlp-gentm) enables automatic
extraction of text from heterogeneous document collections within disk
images to generate user-browsable topic models within a web browser. The
disk browsing environment (bitcurator-access-webtools) provides
full-text browsing of documents contained within disk images, along with
(in progress) analysis of entities identified within those documents.
Various command-line tools are provided in another repository
(bitcurator-nlp-entspan).

**Current repositories:**

- [<u>https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-nlp-gentm</u>](https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-nlp-gentm)

- [<u>https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-access-webtools</u>](https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-access-webtools)

- [<u>https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-nlp-entspan</u>](https://github.com/BitCurator/bitcurator-nlp-entspan)

**Technology Stack:**

- Sleuth Ki t- to parse file systems in disk images,

  - [<u>https://github.com/sleuthkit/sleuthkit</u>](https://github.com/sleuthkit/sleuthkit)

- textract- to extract text from common file formats

  - [<u>https://textract.readthedocs.io/en/stable/</u>](https://textract.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)

- gensim - to generate topic models

  - [<u>https://radimrehurek.com/gensim/</u>](https://radimrehurek.com/gensim/)

- pyLDAvis -

  - [<u>https://github.com/bmabey/pyLDAvis</u>](https://github.com/bmabey/pyLDAvis))
