This document samples various formatting available in Google Docs so
that you can compare what will be correctly captured in the bulk
conversion into RestructuredText or Markdown.

# Heading 1

## Heading 2

### Heading 3

#### Heading 4

##### Heading 5

###### Heading 6

Subtitle

Normal text

**Bold**, *italic*, [underline]{.underline}, ~~strikethrough~~,
^superscript^, ~subscript~

Red text, [highlighted text]{.mark}

Center aligned

Right aligned

Justified text, but you won't be able to tell unless the text is long
enough to cover a few lines, so here's the start of Proust's ISoLT: "For
a long time I used to go to bed early. Sometimes, when I had put out my
candle, my eyes would close so quickly that I had not even time to say
\"I\'m going to sleep.\" And half an hour later the thought that it was
time to go to sleep would awaken me; I would try to put away the book
which, I imagined, was still in my hands, and to blow out the light; I
had been thinking all the time, while I was asleep, of what I had just
been reading, but my thoughts had run into a channel of their own, until
I myself seemed actually to have become the subject of my book: a
church, a quartet, the rivalry between François I and Charles V."

Et en français avec les diacritiques: "Longtemps, je me suis couché de
bonne heure. Parfois, à peine ma bougie éteinte, mes yeux se fermaient
si vite que je n'avais pas le temps de me dire: «Je m'endors.» Et, une
demi-heure après, la pensée qu'il était temps de chercher le sommeil
m'éveillait; je voulais poser le volume que je croyais avoir encore dans
les mains et souffler ma lumière; je n'avais pas cessé en dormant de
faire des réflexions sur ce que je venais de lire, mais ces réflexions
avaient pris un tour un peu particulier; il me semblait que j'étais
moi-même ce dont parlait l'ouvrage: une église, un quatuor, la rivalité
de François Ier et de Charles Quint."

\^ That's a horizontal line right there

Lists

1.  Top

    a.  Indent 1

    b.  ...

        i.  Indent 2

        ii. ...

            1.  Indent 3

            2.  ...

    c.  Back

    d.  ...

-   Top

    -   Indent 1

    -   ...

        -   Indent 2

        -   ...

            -   Indent 3

            -   ...

    -   Back

    -   ...

Serif font (Times New Roman)

Monospace font (Courier New)

Python code block



I think that should cover everything you might want to use.
